SLOVO
=====

INSTALLING
Open Slovo right from this window. It moves itself to the Applications
folder and restarts from there. Without administrator rights, Slovo goes
to the Applications folder inside your home folder. You can also drag
the Slovo icon onto the Applications folder next to it.

If MPXTrans (the earlier name of Slovo) is on this Mac, Slovo takes over its
settings on the first launch, and MPXTrans can be deleted.

IF macOS WON'T OPEN THE APP
The app isn't notarized by Apple, so on the first launch macOS may show
a warning ("cannot verify the developer" or "Apple could not verify it is free
of malware"). You only need to allow it once.

  • On macOS 15 and later, close the warning with "Done", open System
    Settings, go to Privacy & Security, scroll down, click "Open Anyway"
    next to Slovo and confirm.

  • On macOS 13–14, right-click Slovo in Finder, choose "Open", then
    click "Open" again in the warning.

  • If that didn't help, drag Slovo onto the Applications folder, open
    Terminal and run:
        xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /Applications/Slovo.app

FIRST LAUNCH
If Subline (formerly Subtits) with downloaded models is already on this Mac,
Slovo uses them right away: both apps share the models folder. If there are no models, the
"Recognition Models" window opens. Click "Download" next to Whisper Large v3
Turbo (about 870 MB). The model is downloaded once, after that everything
works offline.

HOW TO USE
1. Drop an audio or video file in any format onto the window (MP3, M4A, WAV,
   OGG, FLAC, MP4, MOV, MKV, WEBM, AVI…). You can also drop it onto the Dock
   icon or click "Choose File".
2. The text appears as it is recognized; the Dock icon shows the progress.
3. You can fix the transcript right in the window, then:
     • "Copy" puts all the text on the clipboard;
     • "Save" writes a .txt file (or .srt for subtitles);
     • the Share button sends it via AirDrop, Messages, Mail, Notes and more.
4. At the top, choose the view: "Text" (with paragraphs), "Timecodes"
   (the time of every phrase) or "SRT" (subtitles).
5. In the second row, choose case and punctuation: "Aa ,.!?" (upper and
   lower case with punctuation), "Aa" (without punctuation), "aa ,.!?" (all
   lowercase with punctuation) or "aa" (all lowercase without punctuation).
   The Transcript menu has the same choice. The variant applies to
   everything you see, copy, save and share. In timecodes and SRT only the
   text changes, and you can edit it in any variant.

The tiles under the drop area choose the model and the speech language and
turn on "Skip Silence" and "Accurate Mode". If the result isn't good enough,
click ↻ above the text, choose another model and click "Transcribe".

SETTINGS (⌘, or the gear in the window)
  • "Skip Silence" is on by default. With it, Whisper doesn't make up
    phrases where nobody speaks.
  • "Accurate Mode" is on by default too. It makes fewer mistakes
    but runs slower.
  • In "Names and Terms", list words that occur in your recordings
    (names, companies) so that Whisper spells them correctly.
  • "Sound Effects" are on by default. Slovo plays a short sound when
    a transcription starts, finishes or fails, when text is copied, saved
    or shared, when a model is downloaded or deleted and when an update
    fails to install. The sounds play at the macOS alert volume and stay
    silent if interface sound effects are off in System Settings, Sound.
  • "Menu Bar Icon While Working" is on by default too. While
    a transcription runs, the icon shows its progress, hovering over it
    shows the percentage and the time left, and a click brings the Slovo
    window forward.

UPDATES
Slovo looks for a new version on GitHub right after launch and then every
three hours. It downloads a new version by itself, checks its signature
and installs it when Slovo is idle. While a transcription runs or the
finished text is not saved or copied yet, the update waits. Before the
restart the window shows "Updating to version…" for a moment. If you quit
Slovo first, the new version goes in when it quits.

With "Install Updates Automatically" turned off in Settings, Slovo shows
a card with "Update", "Later" and "Skip" above the window's content
instead. To check by hand, choose "Check for Updates…" in the Slovo menu.
The "Check for Updates" switch in Settings turns the checks off
altogether.

OPEN AT LOGIN
Slovo opens at login without a window or a Dock icon, to install updates
on time. macOS shows a notification when Slovo adds itself to the login
items for the first time. The window appears when you open Slovo from
Launchpad, Finder or the Dock, or open a file with it. To stop it, turn
off "Open at Login" in Settings.

SHORTCUTS
  ⌘O ................ open a file
  ⌘S ................ save the transcript
  ⇧⌘C ............... copy all text
  ⌘1 / ⌘2 / ⌘3 ...... text / timecodes / SRT
  ⌘R ................ transcribe again
  Esc or ⌘. ......... stop transcription
  ⌘N ................ new transcription
  ⌘F ................ find in the text

INTERFACE LANGUAGE
Slovo speaks the main language of macOS, English or Russian. To choose
a language for Slovo only, open System Settings, General, Language & Region,
and add Slovo to the Applications list.

REQUIREMENTS
macOS 13.3 or later. Slovo is fastest on Macs with Apple Silicon (M1 and
later), where an hour of audio takes a few minutes. On Intel Macs recognition
runs on the CPU and is noticeably slower.
